- [Tutor] Now that we have a Docker file,
let's build our container image
and adjust our Pipeline to perform the task as well.
So to get started,
we're first going to package our application using
the Maven wrapper.
So I'll provide the argument for our jar name
that's required by the build,
and I'm just going to name the jar service.
And then I'll tell Maven to execute the package phase.
Okay. This will build and package our executable jar.
Okay, now that we've built the jar,
we can start working on creating our container image.
To do that, we'll use the Docker build command.
When we execute the build,
we'll need to pass in the build argument
that we specified in our Docker file.
You'll recall it was named jar file
and here we need to provide the location of the jar.
And we know that within Maven it places the jar
in the target directory,
and then I name the jar service.
All right, now that we have that set up,
let's go ahead and we'll provide a tag for this image.
I'm just going to call it room service local,
and then we'll tell Docker to find our Docker file
in this directory.
Okay, we can go ahead and start performing the build.
And there, it looks like our container image was built.
Let's go ahead and we can take a look
at our images inside of Docker.
Yep, right there it is.
Now that we know our container image builds,
let's update our Pipeline
so we can build the container image using Jenkins.
So I'm going to go ahead and start out by copying
the command that we use to build the container.
Then I'm going to head over to eclipse
and inside of our Pipeline,
I'm going to come down here
to our build container image stage.
Here, I'm going to add a shell step,
and then I'll just paste the instructions
that we executed to build our container image.
Now, we're going to make some changes here
to make our Pipeline more flexible.
So instead of passing in this jar file location,
let's make that a variable.
So I'll go ahead and add a placeholder for the jar location,
and then we're going to do the same thing
for the name of the tag.
I'll just create a new placeholder named image tag.
Okay, now with the command in place,
we can go ahead and create those environment variables
that it will require to build our container image.
That means we'll have to come up here
to the environment section.
The first environment variable that we'll create
is the jar location variable.
So here, we're going to specify the target directory,
which is where Maven will place our executable jar.
And then we're just going to use our jar name variable.
And then after that, we're going add the extension dot jar.
Okay, next we need to create our image tag.
The image tag is going to rely upon the image name,
which we already have declared as a variable.
So I can go ahead and add a placeholder.
Then we'll add a colon,
and then we're going to suffix it with our build number
in order to create a version for that image.
Okay, that should be everything we need
to build our container image within our Jenkins Pipeline.